W-11558151-Legacy-vpn (#613)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/legacy-vpn-migration.adoc

= Legacy VPN Migration to Anypoint VPN
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#cloudhub-deployments", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-platform-pce-deployments", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-runtime-fabric-deployments", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> If you are using legacy VPN system, you can now migrate from Legacy VPN to Anypoint VPN on a per-route basis, and delete your legacy VPN from the Anypoint Console UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a legacy VPN system, you can now migrate to Anypoint VPN on a per-route basis, and delete your legacy VPN from the Anypoint Console UI.
```

> All VPN connections configured prior to November 2018 are eligible for migration to the new Anypoint VPN solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All VPN connections configured before November 2018 are eligible for migration to Anypoint VPN.
```

== Prerequisites

=== Check Device Requirements

Before migrating to Anypoint VPN, ensure that your device meets all necessary requirements. See xref:vpn-about.adoc[Anypoint VPN] for more information.

[TIP]

> Actual configuration steps, and functionality may differ based on the type of device you use. If supported on your device, use Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Actual configuration steps and functionality may differ based on the type of device you use. If your device supports it, use Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routing.
```

=== Verify Anypoint VPN Entitlements

> . Log in to Runtime Manager using an account with the required roles and permissions. See xref:vpn-create-arm.adoc#prerequisites[Create an Anypoint VPN Connection] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Using an account with the required roles and permissions, log in to Runtime Manager. See xref:vpn-create-arm.adoc#prerequisites[Create an Anypoint VPN Connection] for more information.
```

> . Navigate to the Business Group where your VPC resides (if not in the parent organization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If it's not in the parent organization, navigate to the Business Group where your VPC resides.
```

> ** If the VPNs option is present in the left-hand menu, you have the necessary entitlements to create an Anypoint VPN connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** If the VPNs option is present in the navigation menu, you have the necessary entitlements to create an Anypoint VPN connection.
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this should be a bullet. Maybe just a regular sentence under the step

so 

```
If it's not in the parent organization, navigate to the Business Group where your VPC resides.
+
If the VPNs option is present in the left-hand menu, you have the necessary entitlements to create an Anypoint VPN connection.
```

> ** When the VPNs option is not present:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** If the VPNs option is not present:
```

> ** When the VPNs option is not present:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ** When the VPNs option is not is present:

Reviewer 2: *nit* typo -> is not present

Author: fixed

> *** If your VPC resides in the parent organization, contact Customer Success Manager for assistance with this request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If your VPC resides in the parent organization, contact Customer Success Manager for assistance with this request.
```

> *** If your VPC resides in a child Business Group, assign the VPN entitlements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If your VPC resides in a child Business Group, assign the VPN entitlements:
```

Reviewer: the next couple edits change the structure just a bit so be sure to check the formatting

> **** Log into Access Management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Log into Access Management.
```

> **** Go to Organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Go to Organization.
```

> **** Select the Business Group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the Business Group.
```

> **** Use the sliders in the Business Group Info box to assign the required number of VPNs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Use the sliders in the Business Group Info box to assign the required number of VPNs.
```

=== Configure VPN Device

Download the VPN configuration file from Runtime Manager, and configure your VPN device. See xref:vpn-about.adoc#ipsec-settings[Anypoint VPN] for more information on IPsec Settings.

> Running both the legacy and new VPN using the same encryption domains for a single VPC creates asymmetric routing scenarios, and breaks connectivity to the VPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running both the legacy and Anypoint VPN using the same encryption domains for a single VPC creates asymmetric routing scenarios and breaks connectivity to the VPC.
```

> You can validate connectivity via the new VPN using a single host (a /32 encryption domain). Either create a single /32 static route, or propagate this route via BGP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can validate connectivity via Anypoint VPN using a single host (a /32 encryption domain). Either create a single /32 static route, or propagate this route via BGP.
```

> Make sure you follow these rules when routing traffic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When routing traffic, follow these guidelines :
```

> * When your VPC route table has multiple routes, use the most specific route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your VPC route table has multiple routes, use the most specific route.
```

> * When your VPC route table has duplicate routes, use the manually configured route pointing to the legacy VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If your VPC route table has duplicate routes, use the manually configured route pointing to the legacy VPN.
```

[NOTE]

> When the same route is set for the Legacy VPN and Anypoint, the traffic goes to the Legacy VPN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the same route is set for the legacy VPN and Anypoint VPN, the traffic goes to the legacy VPN.
```

> See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-View-the-VPC-Route-Table-via-the-UI[How to View the VPC Route Table via the UI] for information on how to check your VPC route table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-View-the-VPC-Route-Table-via-the-UI[How to View the VPC Route Table via the UI^] for information on how to check your VPC route table.
```

> === Create New Anypoint VPN in Runtime Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create an Anypoint VPN in Runtime Manager
```

Follow the step-by-step instructions in xref:vpn-create-arm.adoc[Create an Anypoint VPN Connection] to create a new Anypoint VPN in Runtime Manager.

> Provisioning the new VPN before deleting the legacy one will reduce downtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provisioning the Anypoint VPN before deleting the legacy one will reduce downtime.
```

To reduce the impact on connectivity while validating the new VPN connection, establish the new VPN for a /32 encryption domain (a single host address in your network).
When migrating from the legacy VPN to Anypoint VPN, you can update your new VPN connection to include all the required encryption domains.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> == Migrate and Test your Legacy VPN to Anypoint VPN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Migrate the Legacy VPN to Anypoint VPN
```

Once you have created your new Anypoint VPN:

. From Anypoint Platform, select *Runtime Manager*.

> . Select *Legacy VPN* in the left menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the navigation menu, select *Legacy VPN*.
```

> . Select the legacy VPN you want to migrate. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the legacy VPN you want to migrate. 
+
```

image:legacy-vpn-select.png[Select Legacy VPN]
. Disable a route and then test the connection going through the Anypoint VPN.

> .. Repeat this step for each route. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Repeat this step for each route. 
+
```

image:legacy-vpn-disable-routes.png[Disable Legacy VPN Routes]

> . Once you disable all Legacy VPN routes, select *Delete VPN*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once you disable all legacy VPN routes, select *Delete VPN*. 
+
```

image:legacy-vpn-delete.png[Delete Legacy VPN]

> . A pop-up message appears prompting you to confirm the deletion. Click *Delete*. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. When prompted, confirm the deletion. Click *Delete*. 
+
```
